backend/README.md, before:

# Multi-DEX Launchpad Backend

This package contains the source code for the backend. The service can run either as an agent or a server, that's controlled my MODE env variable.

The agent is responsible for collecting on-chain data for the Launchpad, storing it in the database, and executing the Launchpad.
The server exposes API endpoints for the frontend.

---

## Note for development in IntelliJ

- Since Prisma 7 the package `@prisma/language-server` may be required to be installed due to plugin issue:  
  [WEB-75800: Prisma Plugin incorrectly requires URL in datasource block](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WEB-75800)

---

## Run the application

To run the Multi DEX Launchpad backend application, you need to have the following services running on your machine:

- Cardano node
- Ogmios
- Postgres database

### 1. Setup environment variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

You will need to adjust the values to match your environment (connection to the database, Ogmios, and wallet mnemonic).

### 2. Generate the prisma client

```bash
bun prisma:generate
```

### 3. Run the database migrations

```bash
bun prisma:dev
```

### 4. Run the application

```bash
bun dev
```

# Architecture

## Launch flow

Users creates and signs a transaction:

- Sends funds to the agent
- Creates the first project tokens holder
- Creates the head node
- Submits the launch config in the metadata
  The starter is the first input of the transaction

Then the agent has to:

- Generate and deploy the reference scripts
- Insert separator nodes <- ! has to happen before the start

After that the initialization is done and the launch starts.
Users make contributions.
The commit fold happens.
The rewards fold happens and rewards holders are created.
The pools are created.
The pool proofs are created.
The users retrieve the rewards.

## What do we need to keep track of?

- the launches with their config and status
  they are initiated by users, we can aggregate them from on-chain activity
  we only track launches with valid configurations
  since the contracts are generated, we can prefilter by tx metadata

- the agent utxos

- all the launch-related utxos

- the reference script holder utxos, both the constant and the launch ones

- the Wr & Sundae pool utxos

Commit message:

[BE] Add API documentation (#178)
* [BE] Remove submitTx route

* [BE] Add API documentation

(cherry picked from commit 018fa9df2b97f4b540ccb1b6bc949a341069075d)

backend/README.md, after:

# Multi-DEX Launchpad Backend

This package contains the source code for the backend. The service can run either as an agent or a server, that's controlled my MODE env variable.

The agent is responsible for collecting on-chain data for the Launchpad, storing it in the database, and executing the Launchpad.

The server exposes API endpoints for the frontend. The API is built with **tRPC**; for full documentation, see **[api.md](./API.md)**.

## Note for development in IntelliJ

- Since Prisma 7 the package `@prisma/language-server` may be required to be installed due to plugin issue:  
  [WEB-75800: Prisma Plugin incorrectly requires URL in datasource block](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WEB-75800)

---

## Run the application

To run the Multi DEX Launchpad backend application, you need to have the following services running on your machine:

- Cardano node
- Ogmios
- Postgres database

### 1. Setup environment variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

You will need to adjust the values to match your environment (connection to the database, Ogmios, and wallet mnemonic).

### 2. Generate the prisma client

```bash
bun prisma:generate
```

### 3. Run the database migrations

```bash
bun prisma:dev
```

### 4. Run the application

```bash
bun dev
```

# Architecture

## Launch flow

Users creates and signs a transaction:

- Sends funds to the agent
- Creates the first project tokens holder
- Creates the head node
- Submits the launch config in the metadata
  The starter is the first input of the transaction

Then the agent has to:

- Generate and deploy the reference scripts
- Insert separator nodes <- ! has to happen before the start

After that the initialization is done and the launch starts.
Users make contributions.
The commit fold happens.
The rewards fold happens and rewards holders are created.
The pools are created.
The pool proofs are created.
The users retrieve the rewards.

## What do we need to keep track of?

- the launches with their config and status
  they are initiated by users, we can aggregate them from on-chain activity
  we only track launches with valid configurations
  since the contracts are generated, we can prefilter by tx metadata

- the agent utxos

- all the launch-related utxos

- the reference script holder utxos, both the constant and the launch ones

- the Wr & Sundae pool utxos
